Diary Week 2

2018 26 Feb

Continue working on the generation of SKlearn vector. Usage of intermediate amino acid "windows" before encoding is not advised; to generate encoding direct from sequence, adding the padding when necessary.

Created a new streamlined version of trialSVM.py, called VectorCreator.py.

Attempted a preliminary version of this code using Deques; producing an increasing subsequence up to the maximum length, which was configured to be the window size, and directly encoded the output from deque. By selecting encoded sequences of longer than (pad+1)*20, the algorithm selects the correct first encoded window and padding it with the difference between supposed length and the shorter-than window; the encoded windows which have correct lengths are not modified. This works to produce the correct output for the head window to second-to-last window. To improve the algorithm to produce the tail windows as well.

2018 27 Feb

Rejected the idea of using deques due to complication, decided instead to return the iterative function. Successfully generated windows for a single sequence including padding by stipulating 3 if conditions: 1. if the index <=0, meaning the first residue, 2. if the index is >0 and < padding, meaning the residues between the first and the padded distance, and 3. if the index >= padding, meaning the remaining residues. Padding was applied accordingly for all 3 conditions depending on how many residues are missing from total window length. This was done in a new script called VectorCreatorTrial.py to retain notes from the previous script.

VectorCreatorTrial also performs a hard-coded binary encoding of both the AA windows (to features) and the topology windows (to labels, and outputs two final lists to be fed into the SVM. A small script prior to the input of the encoded features asserts that the count for both encoded features and labels is the same as a quality control.

In the evening, attempted to feed the encoded features to the SVM, but kept turning a value error "setting an array element with a sequence".
